---
author: Maureen
title: Then and now
---

We've been here for just over a week now, though it seems longer. This is my second go round of living in Europe and my life is far different from when I was a 20 year old student, who had never been here before. That was 9 years ago, and now I've seen all of this stuff before, and life is more complicated, and I'm here with my husband instead of 150 other students. Living in Florence was life changing and still remains one of the best things that I ever did for myself. The hope is that living in Paris will have a similarly positive affect on both of our lives. One of the things that I forgot about the first time I lived in Europe is that there is an adjustment period where I felt incredibly out of my element and lonely. While I don't (yet) feel these things quite as strongly as I did then, the beginning of this adventure has not been without its emotional ups and downs. We're at the beginning of this journey and it will be a bit before we get to the part of the story where we feel like we've made a home here and the uncertainty is a distant memory.

When you tell people that you're moving to Paris, everyone has this romantic notion of what your life will be like, as if it will suddenly turn into a sequel to Amelie. The bread and cheese and wine is great, as expected, but let's be honest here: moving to a city where you don't know anyone or speak very much of the language is hard (and the soundtrack isn't as good).  Many of my thoughts this week have been wondering why we chose to leave a good life in Seattle where all of our friends and family are and where we know how everything works. What is my purpose here? If I continue with my bad habits here or spend all of my time sitting in our apartment staring at a computer screen because I'm too scared to go out and try new things, what's the point of uprooting our lives and moving here? I could get by living like this, but it would not be a fulfilling experience. Even I have a romanticized notion of what moving abroad should look like, but the experience I envision seems to happen more easily to those who are more naturally outgoing than I am, so in this I will be challenged.

Last time, when I moved to Florence, it was to go to school. This time, I've left my job and the major time sink and mental drain in my life behind and, embarrassingly, don't know quite what to do with myself. I have all this free time, and now I have to figure out how to fill it. It's a good problem to have, but it's still a problem. Or, also, it's that I do know some of the things that I want, but I feel shy or lacking in language ability to do them without feeling awkward. You'd think I'd be used to feeling awkward by now! Eventually I will gather the emotional energy to get out there and do the things I want to do, like dance, but until I get over that hurdle I will be trapped inside my head wondering what it will be like. Though I intellectually know that it's only been 7 days and a good 3 of them have been spent recovering from a cold and jet lag, I'm terribly impatient for things to start happening because it feels like we've been on this adventure for much longer than just a week and I don't want to waste this opportunity. I have the benefit of prior experience, but it's also making me want to rush past these uncertain times as quickly as possible and get to the good parts. 

So, what have I been doing with myself as I've worked my way through this angst? Mostly picking neighborhoods and wandering around. As it's still August, many shops are still closed, but it's been nice having a chance to wander around without having to hit a tourist site and start to get a feel for the different areas. I've enjoyed exploring the Marais and Canal St. Martin especially. We've also done a few of the more touristy things, like go to Monmartre and Sacre Coeur and walk by the Eiffel Tower, just because we've had the time. I've managed to order bread and pastries in French, so there's a small victory. This weekend we're exploring Normandy and I'm looking forward to seeing another part of France and trying as many different types of ciders and salted butter caramel anything as I possibly can. Next week, our French language classes start and I can start learning more French and feeling less helpless soon!

