---
author: Daniel
---

It's been a month, it's time for me to actually write something.

You'd think it would be easy to find the time, but there are many things
competing for it. Some are unprecedented, others unexpected; old demons stalk.

## Language

We started our French class four weeks ago, and I feel like we've made good
progress. Instead of four words, I now know a dozen, and know that I should know
many more before I become comfortable actually saying them in conversation. I am
an ace at composing a simple sentence in French, and then blurting it out in
English.

French is a beautiful language; even its teachers don't bother attempting to
explain its myriad quirks. When in doubt, follow your ear (*l'euphonie*), except
when you don't. French inspires pedantry. I aspire to speak it better, or with
any facility whatsoever, mostly so I will stop sounding so boorish to myself.

There are few hells worse than knowing what you want to say and lacking the
tools to express it.

## Contexts

Turns out, our flat is smack in the middle of tourist Ground Zero.

Now, had I my wits about me when we were shopping for furnished short-term
rentals, I could have told you this from direct experience (not that it's
required, it's pretty self-evident). Alas, the romance of l'Île Saint-Louis,
exposed beams, and high ceilings o'erthrew my reason. I now have a shower in
which I can't stand up straight and a kitchen whose entire ability to prepare
food consists of two hot plates. C'est la vie.

As a result of being surrounded by hordes of the rudest people on Earth who
pummel the proprietors of any brasserie or salon de thé into a jaded paste of
god-just-leave-already, I don't yet have a cozy neighborhood café that I'm
worming my way into regular-hood. All of the local merchants speak English,
often to the exclusion of any French that I might be able to practice, as little
(and less fluent) as that currently is. Everything is *even more* expensive in
an already-expensive city.

----

Oh god, Miles Davis just came in over Bill Evans' introduction of "Blue in
Green". Waves of sonic comfort melt through my overwrought prefrontal cortex. I
really needed that.

(Yes, I'm sitting in the loft of a Starbucks underneath the Louvre, passing
Métro trains rattling the railing. The music doesn't suck, like so many
Starbucks State-side.)

## Demons

If they had kept playing *Kind of Blue*, I think I would have started crying.
Too much beauty makes the heart ache keener.

This is so hard. I "know" that I'm going through an emotional process that all
expatriates experience, but that has never stopped any anguish worth knowing.

We have basically no friends here. Until we finally got a second key last week,
we had spent almost 4 weeks straight together 24/7. I love Maureen more than
anything in the world, but it has been extremely stressful at times. School has
been a desperately-appreciated structural framework, giving form to the formless
mass of days spent re-learning how to live. Even so, it accords its own
anxieties and confusion.

Among our classmates, we have no peers; we had held out hope that this wouldn't
be the case, an open field of social possibility. As it is, our small class (our
teachers have been wonderful) is composed of either 19 year-olds who already
have the camaraderie of youth and various educational programs, or 40-somethings
with families in tow, self-sufficient amid the riot of new experiences. There
are literally no other married, childless 30-somethings with whom we might share
common cultural bonds.

So, depression. And guilt, too! "Oh, you poor baby, depressed in Paris with no
need to work." Wicked, insidious. I didn't mean to end it on such a sour note,
but that's where my brain took me. I have appreciated all of the love and
support from friends and family, and hope I can work through this stuff soon.
