---
author: Daniel
title: Everything Is Amazing, Nobody Is Happy
---

I saw the slogan on a t-shirt while walking down the Boulevard Saint-Germain.
It's probably some gross corporate branding, but I currently lack access to the
googles and I can't be buggered to look it up. It is a convenient generalization
for my current state of mind, two full months into whatever this is.

I'm back at the Starbucks in the mall underneath the Louvre, because brains find
comfort in patterns, and perhaps because I'm still too chicken to explore other
options. I'm just typing random things that occur to me in hopes that it unplugs
the blockage of words stuck in my head. The music sucks today.

In retrospect, I had a very optimistic appraisal of my own ability to integrate
into a completely different social context, especially one wherein I lacked
expert-level language ability. The reality of the situation bites very hard.

## Observational Humours

Anyone who has known me for a sufficient duration will not be surprised to hear
that my retiring nature defeats many of the tactics one might use to combat
loneliness in a foreign environment. That is to say, I'd rather read a book than
talk to strangers, and when I have my druthers, that's exactly what I end up
doing. Even when I know such distressing techniques are contributing toward
noble goals such as making a single solitary friend for pete's sake you can't go
months without external social contact can you maybe I'll be the first one right
right right.

That one got away from me. Tone poems aren't the most conducive medium for
audience understanding. If that even makes sense.

Tourist-watching remains a spicy mélange of mirth and aggravation. Watching
actual Parisians (and feebly attempting to copy their style) is more
fun/educational, but also intimidating. Understanding every fifth word (if
they're speaking slowly enough) certainly helps assuage the frustration, but it
doesn't lend itself to making those tenuous bridges of social entreaty that are
so automatic back home. It is eternally difficult to avoid constant comparisons
to previously autonomic responses in Seattle.

## Bright Spots

Our French class continues to be engaging, if occasionally murksome and
embarrassing. The structure afforded by such a regular appointment is probably
the only thing (outside of necessities) that gets me out of the flat during the
week. Our teacher is warm, funny, and very skilled at shepherding the noobs
through the minefields of le langue français.

For all the griping, we are figuring some things out. I think the taciturn baker
down the street recognizes me now, and his formerly icy demeanour has thawed
somewhat. I started doing calisthenics every other day (push-ups and leg-lifts
so far), with an eye toward jogging on the off days once I get over my fear of
looking stupid in front of salespeople at a athletic shoe store. Orienteering on
the streets of Paris has become somewhat more instinctual, with less consulting
of maps than previously necessary.

With all the reading I've been doing, I've been enjoying some new (to me) and
old favourites. Pat Rothfuss's latest, "The Slow Regard of Silent Things," is of
course phenomenally, exquisitely good. I've developed a space opera habit,
devouring James S.A. Corey's "Expanse" series.

The wine here is amazing. But you knew that already.

## Aspirational Accountability

November is the last month of our French class. It's also NaNoWriMo, which I've
decided to join as an excuse to force myself to be productive. I won't be
writing a novel, though. Rather, I'll be writing a blog post every day, as well
as publishing some photos daily. Mostly, I'm trying to establish a habit. I'll
be posting the results under the **#innano** tag ("international nanowrimo") on
Facebook and Twitter. Please help me stay accountable by publicly shaming me if
I shirk.

That's all for now, I guess.
