----
author: Maureen
title: On Food
----

In some ways, moving to Paris has been like learning how to be an adult all
over again. When you first move out on your own, you know roughly how to keep
yourself alive, but you might not be terribly efficient at it. That's kind of
how things are with us at the moment, but we're getting better.

One way that living in Paris is different from vacationing here is the
constant need to feed ourselves without always having to resort to going to a
restaurant (yummy, but expensive if you go out for every single meal) or
picnicking on bread, cheese, and pastries every single meal (cheap and tasty,
but you do get tired of that after a while).

Back in Seattle, I would go to the grocery store once a week on the weekend and
buy all the food that I thought we'd need or that I'd have time to prepare for
the coming week and that mostly worked. You can do that in the States because
most of us have space to store that food in pantries and giant refrigerators.

In contrast, our cozy studio in Paris has a small two burner stove, a mini
fridge, and a dishwasher (that I wish was an oven - I miss baking!) and a little
bit of counter space on which to store and prepare food. It is tiny.
Consequently, I have to spend far more time thinking about and seeking out food
than I'm used to while being limited by the kitchen and the tools at my
disposal.

The traditional French way of shopping for food is to visit the butcher for
meat, the bakery for bread, the vegetable stands in the market for produce,
and so on until you've gathered what you need. You have to do this often,
because you don't have much space to store food, so you have the chance get to
know your local vendors and form a lasting relationship with them in a way
that isn't quite as common back in the States with our supermarkets and such.
In this way, you're closer to the food that you choose and consume because
you're closer to those who produce it. Quite romantic, no?

As romantic as it is, for someone who doesn't speak much French (and is
naturally shy), this is a bit daunting at first. It took me a week or so to
gather the courage to go to one of the many outdoor markets and buy something,
with my (at the time) mostly non-existant French. The hard part comes when they
weigh your food and tell you how much you need to pay instead of handing you a
receipt. Up until recently, I was having a hard time catching the entire amount,
and more than once I've handed a vendor way more money than I needed to because
I only caught the first half of the price or something.

They really like exact change here. Some people are nice about it and repeat
themselves, or switch to English or print a receipt, but sometimes you run into
grumpy or impatient vendors. It's a lot more difficult to understand French in
the wild as opposed to a classroom where the teachers speak slowly and enunciate
and possibly repeat what they said when met with a blank stare. There's also the
fact that I can't always *hear* what they say when they say something that I
don't recognize, but that's a topic for another post. I've done a lot of
smiling, nodding, pointing, shrugging, using my fingers to count, and shaking my
head. I guess when I can't speak well or understand everything, I resort to
acting and body language. It works fairly well, but doesn't help me practice my
French.

Even with these challenges, going to the market is pretty fun. The fruit and
vegetable vendors shout about whatever they're trying to sell that day.
Sometimes they offer you a taste if things aren't too crazy. I can see how you
would be able to develop a relationship with these vendors if you lived in the
neighborhood and saw them everyday.

The big Sunday market at Bastille is a crush of tourists and locals squeezing
through the aisles between rows of stands, trying to take the sights and smells
in. Everyone has their place - the old woman with the cat on a leash playing
tunelessly on a violin sits at the top of the market; the short, muscular
butcher who carries a spit loaded with roast chickens from the rotisserie to the
counter one handed has a stand in the middle row next to one of the dried up
fountains, the italian cheese and pasta vendor draws customers in with its
heavenly fragrance from deep within the left arm of the market. This is the
market in which I've had the most success, because it has everything. Over the
past month or so, I've made it a habit of trying a number of of many varieties
of apples sold by a certain vendor, and to buy bread from the same bakery's
stand each time I go. So, while I haven't made any friends yet, I've managed to
find 'my' stands in this crazy market.

Shopping in outdoor markets and individual shops takes a lot of effort,
especially if you do it (almost) every day and don't live near a good one, but
they are more satisfying than going to a supermarket. Perhaps it's the fact that
I've had to put the time and effort into acquiring this food and perhaps it's
because it feels like I'm Doing It Right (in France) by shopping this way, even
though I'm far more comfortable with the anonymity and convenience that shopping
in a supermarket brings. Whether this "Right Way" is a romanticized notion of
French life or something that the average working Parisian actually does, I'm
still not sure.

People here do still go to supermarkets (otherwise they wouldn't be everywhere),
but supermarkets don't seem to be the complete solution like they are in the
States. The supermarkets that I've shopped in here are a different experience
than those back home. They're smaller, more cluttered and have all sorts of
things that you wouldn't find in America - and lacking many things that you are
used to seeing. They seem in some ways less commercial, as if they're not trying
to get you to buy all the expensive junk food. They don't seem to expect you to
buy very much - there are no carts, only baskets, and the checkout conveyor
belts are quite short.

You learn the error of your ways if you buy too much and are alone in the store
because you are expected to unload your basket (once there's space), bag your
own groceries and pay the cashier who has scanned in everything you're buying at
lightning speed and is glaring at you because you're not paying or bagging fast
enough. Then you have to fumble with change (either making exact change or
receiving it back) while still trying to bag your items quickly because that
cashier sure isn't going to wait for you to finish before moving onto the next
customer and putting their food in the same bagging area that you're trying to
clear of your purchases. I don't expect them to be friendly, but a little
patience is appreciated.

Supermarkets are in Paris are a little less pleasant than you'd like. In any
case, I find myself in one at least a few times a week. I've gotten annoyed at
the two nearby and spent time last night researching different supermarket
chains on the internet last night like the geek that I am. What did people do
before the internet? Probably talked to other people. In French.
